## Jorge Gamboa
Data Analytics enthusiast. Environmental Analyzer Engineer. Marathon runner. Amateur Crossfit Athlete.
## About me
#### Favorite Quote: "To measure is to know. If you cannot measure it, you cannot improve it" - <em> Lord Kelvin </em>
Patient and willing to learn. I passionately believe that data analysis solves most of the scientific, business and personal problems.

I am used to the idea of training and learning one step at a time. From running Marathons, which require months of preparation, to the idea of going from "Scaled" to "Rx" in Crossfit.
I had to set a goal and Google wasn't giving me a consistent target to aim for to improve my numbers. So my curiosity led me down the path of data analytics and visualization to extract insights from a 
large database of Crossfit athletes statistics and thus evaluate how far I was from the average Crossfitter.

In 2022, I've learned a lot about Machine Learning and Natural Language Processing (NLP). The COVID-19 pandemic brought many changes to our work and study environments. Therefore, a business institute wanted 
to evaluate how students felt about the in-person and remote class formats. In this way, a project was presented to evaluate which format they prefer through surveys and Sentiment Analysis of the students' comments.

I currently work as an environmental process analyzer engineer, which is a profession that includes chemistry, mechanics, electronics, statistics and a little of <b>black magic</b> to evaluate data 
of gas emissions from industries into the atmosphere. The insights generated by this data can reduce emitted pollution levels, efficiently control industrial processes and save a plant from paying millions of dollars
in fines and penalties.

Don't hesitate to contact me or connect via <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/jorge-gamboa-a9503846/" target="_blank">Linkedin</a>.


<!---
jorgekero/jorgekero is a ✨ special ✨ repository because its `README.md` (this file) appears on your GitHub profile.
You can click the Preview link to take a look at your changes.
--->

